hi I'm Shana the vet with child care
lana comc i want to share with you
colored ice cube painting this is really
fun for a winter theme to do it's very
simple and easy to make all you need to
have is ice cube trays water food
coloring and craft sticks and these are
not two jumbo plastics or just the
normal popsicle
size sticks and you would start out with
your ice cube tray you'd fill it with
water but you want to leave the
individual spaces of the cubes there you
don't want to overfill it and then in
each cube area you would put a couple
drops or maybe four drops of food
coloring in and we use a variety of
colors of the food coloring into each or
for each cube but we use a variety food
cards so you have several colors for the
children to choose from the paint with
and once you've put the food coloring in
and it's kind of hard to see because I
have already had the finished product
here but you put the food color in and
then you take one of your craft sticks
and you would gently stir it and you
would do that with all of the ice cube
tray spots on here you would then take a
sheet of tin foil press it over your ice
cube tray and make sure you press in
here so you can see where the individual
cube markings are on here and then you
take a scissors and just gently poke or
slice a little slit in each cube for
where your popsicle stick is going to go
you don't want to try to push the
popsicle stick it's stick itself in
through the tinfoil because I'll just
rip the tin foil and your your popsicle
sticks that really flop all over before
the waters frozen so this way if you
slice it a little bit and you just
gently slide in the stick you know it'll
hold the shape pretty good sometimes
it'll get a little bit ripped or
something but you can check out it while
the ice cubes are freezing and trying to
state straighten up the sticks you can
see here where a couple had flopped over
but that's alright they can still paint
with them and so you'll let that freeze
again and you would cover your tray of
tin foil slice little slices on each
individual cube after you press the spot
suits you could see where the lines are
for each cube and then you would stick
your craft sticks in them and let it
freeze they could adjust the sticks as
by checking on sat and then when that's
done you would just lift
you know gunned it like normal to loosen
up your cubes and then you would lift
the tinfoil off the tray I didn't put
coloring Ollie's on here
almost all and then the children would
paint with them and it's good to get it
a little bit melted before starting
we'll start with a green one I think
here and it really does make colors on
here and children can make whatever kind
of design that they want and of course
the more melted the ice cube gets the
more colour its gonna put on and this is
food coloring so it's safe for children
but you know you don't want them to lick
it or put this and put them in their
mouths
so you may want to talk about that
before you begin this project you can
see you know they can make some really
cool stuff if they took the time and
decide what they're going to make I'm
just swirling it around to show you an
example of how the color turns out and
again I put like four four or five drops
of food color into each ice cube section
here but you can decide what you want to
do for yourself there it's a lot more
darker colors that's totally up to you
again this works perfect with a winter
theme and we're talking about cold and
ice and snow and that's a different kind
of a medium for children work on with
for art in the art center so you can
kind of get the idea what that would be
like for colored ice cube painting I'm
Shelley LaVette with child care landcom
and thanks for watching